═══════════════════════════════════════════════════
             LORE OF THE REALM OF LINUXIA
═══════════════════════════════════════════════════

  In the first age, before roads had names, travelers crossed the wild plains by memory alone.
  Then came Ada of the Lantern, who marked the first safe path with stones of white chalk.
  Where her last lantern burned out, she founded the cottage where new travelers now awaken.
  Around that humble hearth, the earliest folk learned to keep records on clean parchment.
  Merlin the Wise arrived in winter, carrying a staff carved with tiny command runes.
  He taught that a written command, given with care, could move through the world like a key.

  ─── THE FOUNDING OF THE CASTLE ───────────
  King Torvalds raised the castle not to shut people out, but to give knowledge a strong home.
  Its great_hall became the place where royal decrees were posted for all who could read.
  The tower was built for astronomers who watched the sky and wrote careful reports.
  The library gathered scrolls from every craft: navigation, searching, permissions, and lore.
  Beneath the flagstones, the dungeon kept not villains alone, but old warnings and strange journals.
  Beside the barracks, the armory cataloged shields, helms, and blades with patient precision.
  Castle scribes were famous for knowing exactly where they stood before taking another step.
  They would pause, look around, and only then choose the next door.

  ─── THE VILLAGE AND ITS CRAFTS ───────────
  South of the castle grew the village, loud with bells, market cries, and tavern songs.
  The notice_board stood at its center, where news could be overwritten or carefully appended.
  The tavern kept a guest book, because names matter when roads become long and stories become old.
  The blacksmith shaped iron for farmers, guards, bridge builders, and wandering heroes.
  In that workshop, half-finished orders once piled so high they blocked the forge door.
  A wise smith learned that a tidy shop turns hard labor into steady progress.
  The market merchants priced apples, rope, candles, ink, and suspiciously shiny dragon scales.
  They joked that every tool in Linuxia would explain itself to anyone who asked properly.

  ─── THE ENCHANTED FOREST ─────────────────
  North and east lies the enchanted_forest, where paths split and roots curl like sleeping serpents.
  The ancient_oak at its heart is older than the castle and possibly older than Merlin.
  An owl lives there who remembers every hidden trail, every buried fragment, every whispered word.
  Fairies dance in the clearing and hide messages inside songs, riddles, and mushroom caps.
  Deep_woods paths lead to a hollow_tree, a cave with a hibernating bear, and a silver stream.
  At the forest edge, old traveler camps preserve journals from those who learned by trying.
  Three rune fragments were scattered there after the Moonlit Storm: IRON, HEART, and OAK.
  The runes are harmless apart, but together they remind the kingdom what courage is made from.

  ─── THE MOUNTAIN PASS ────────────────────
  Beyond the village road rises the mountain_pass, narrow as a blade and cold even in summer.
  A guard_tower watches the switchbacks, its roster full of rules about who may enter.
  The sealed_gate was forged after goblins learned to read unattended royal maps.
  Its lock does not open to strength, shouting, or wishing, but to correct permission.
  Many travelers first see only refusal there and think the mountain hates them.
  Merlin says refusal is sometimes a lesson wearing armor.
  Past the gate waits a treasure_vault full of rewards, jokes, and items no one should touch.
  The pass teaches that power must be handled openly, carefully, and for a purpose.

  ─── THE ROYAL ARCHIVES ───────────────────
  West of the castle stand the archives, quiet halls where dust motes drift like tiny moons.
  Census ledgers record bakers, millers, masons, weavers, and every family that keeps Linuxia alive.
  Archivists do not count by staring until their eyes blur; they combine small reliable steps.
  One clerk sorts names, another removes neighboring duplicates, another counts the remaining lines.
  A pipe between commands is like a courier passing a sealed letter from desk to desk.
  Battle logs, tax records, and old maps are kept for practice as much as memory.
  The archives teach that large questions become manageable when the work is chained well.

  ─── NOTABLE FOLK OF LINUXIA ──────────────
  Merlin the Wise guides beginners without mocking their first uncertain commands.
  King Torvalds values clear reports more than grand speeches.
  Sage Elara asks questions that send students toward manuals instead of answers.
  Astronomer Nima watches falling stars from the tower and writes in ink the color of midnight.
  Branna the Blacksmith can mend a plow, shoe a griffin, and organize a bench by sunrise.
  Old Tom of the tavern claims he once defeated a troll by checking his spelling twice.
  The archive clerks argue about commas, headers, and whether dragons should be counted as residents.

  ─── A TRAVELER'S PROMISE ────────────────
  Linuxia rewards attention more than haste.
  If a path fails, look where you stand.
  If a name fails, check every letter.
  If a scroll is long, read it page by page.
  If a command is unknown, seek its own help.
  Every region of the realm is a lesson disguised as a place.
  Every file is a voice waiting for the right command.
  Every directory is a room, and every room can lead onward.
  You arrive with no sword, no horse, and no map but curiosity.

  ───────────────────────────────────────────────

  MERLIN'S TASK FOR YOU:

  You have read the ancient lore -- well done!
  Now sign the traveler's log to mark your arrival
  in our kingdom.

  The echo command lets you write text. To create
  a new file with your name in it, type:

    echo "your name here" > travelers_log.txt

  Replace "your name here" with whatever you like,
  but keep the quotes! The > symbol means "write
  this text into a file." You will learn more about
  this later.

  Try it now!
